## Sovereignity

### Do not put all your eggs in the basket off big tech vendors

Most commercial software from big vendors is often not secure enough, even if it is claimed it is. It's too hard for you to really know if the software or system is secure. Of course often there is no choice and the system is required, then it's important to install this system in a sandbox (see above). 

Often the security device or software by itself has backdoors and “planted” vulnerabilities, this is hard to believe, but think about the logic behind this. What would you do as a smart government to have more insight, how to come inside another government or big company's network?

For years certain governments have been putting a lot of work into making sure there are backdoors in +- any system which is being sold from their country or related countries. Especially many (if not all) of the big cloud systems are open to their governments and black market access (dark web, which is heavily used by governments and non governments for getting access to anyone’s info as required). 

We do realize this might be hard to believe, because obviously this is not what these big companies will want us to believe.


### **Idea, why not build an “internet infrastructure layer” co-owned by your citizens?**

Technology is available these days to build out internet capacity which can be co-owned by the citizens. This allows us to build capacity faster and in a much more reliable way, invested by the citizens, secured by technology.

Think about it how solar panels can generate electricity for the people around, in a similar way compute & storage can be generated by citizens (business or personal) for people around.

This has proven to work very well, super reliable and also regenerative, it might allow much faster expansion and lower cost compared to traditional datacenter building methods.

>TODO: complete